docs/cli-handbook.md, before:

# CLI Handbook

**Navigation**: [Home](../README.md) • [Architecture](architecture.md) • [CLI Handbook](cli-handbook.md) • [Intelligence](engine-intelligence.md) • [Scoring](scoring-system.md) • [Manifest](engine-manifest.md) • [Testing](testing.md)

---

## Table of Contents

- [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
- [Command Categories](#command-categories)
- [Advanced Patterns](#advanced-patterns)

## Environment & Execution Paths

This skill follows the [Agent Skills standard](https://agentskills.io) and is aligned with [Claude's Best Practices for Agent Skills](https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/agents-and-tools/agent-skills/best-practices).

| Agent / IDE     | Skill Install Path (Global/User)               | Verification Command           |
| :-------------- | :--------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------- |
| **Claude**      | `~/.claude/skills/a11y/`                       | `claude skills`                |
| **Antigravity** | `~/.gemini/antigravity/skills/a11y/`           | `antigravity status`           |
| **Cursor**      | `~/.cursor/skills/` (or inherits Claude/Codex) | Check "Specialized Skills" tab |
| **Codex**       | `~/.codex/skills/a11y/`                        | `codex status`                 |
| **Windsurf**    | `~/.codeium/windsurf/skills/a11y/`             | `windsurf status`              |
| **Gemini CLI**  | `~/.gemini/skills/a11y/`                       | `gemini status`                |

## Basic Usage

The primary command is `pnpm a11y`. It is an alias for `node scripts/audit.mjs`.

```bash
pnpm a11y --base-url https://example.com
```

## Command Categories

To improve clarity, flags are grouped into logical categories.

### 1. Targeting & Scope

Flags used to define _where_ the engine should scan.

| Flag            | Argument | Default    | Description                                                  |
| :-------------- | :------- | :--------- | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--base-url`    | `<url>`  | (Required) | The starting point of the audit.                             |
| `--max-routes`  | `<num>`  | `10`       | Maximum unique same-origin paths to discover and scan.       |
| `--crawl-depth` | `<num>`  | `2`        | How deep to follow links during route discovery (1-3).       |
| `--routes`      | `<csv>`  | `null`     | A list of specific paths to scan (overrides auto-discovery). |

### 2. Audit Intelligence

Flags used to customize _how_ the engine interprets rules.

| Flag                  | Argument | Default       | Description                                                  |
| :-------------------- | :------- | :------------ | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--target`            | `<text>` | `WCAG 2.2 AA` | Label for the compliance target in reports.                  |
| `--only-rule`         | `<id>`   | `null`        | Run ONLY this specific Axe rule ID (e.g., `color-contrast`). |
| `--ignore-findings`   | `<csv>`  | `null`        | List of rule IDs to exclude from the final report.           |
| `--exclude-selectors` | `<csv>`  | `null`        | CSS selectors to ignore during the DOM scan.                 |

### 3. Execution & Emulation

Flags used to control the _browser_ and _output_.

| Flag             | Argument                              | Default            | Description                                                                     |
| :--------------- | :------------------------------------ | :----------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `--project-dir`  | `<path>`                              | (none)             | Path to the audited project (for framework/library auto-detection).             |
| `--color-scheme` | `light\|dark`                         | `light`            | Emulates browser `prefers-color-scheme`.                                        |
| `--headed`       | (No arg)                              | `false`            | Runs the browser in visible mode (useful for debugging).                        |
| `--wait-ms`      | `<num>`                               | `2000`             | Max wait for `networkidle` after page load (acts as timeout, not fixed delay).  |
| `--timeout-ms`   | `<num>`                               | `30000`            | Global network timeout for each page load.                                      |
| `--wait-until`   | `domcontentloaded\|load\|networkidle` | `domcontentloaded` | Playwright page load strategy. Use `networkidle` for SPAs with async rendering. |

## Advanced Patterns

### Running a Focused Audit

If you are only working on a specific issue, like color contrast, you can save time by isolating it:

```bash
pnpm a11y --base-url http://localhost:3000 --only-rule color-contrast --max-routes 1
```

### Testing Dark Mode Accessibility

Ensure your site meets contrast requirements in both themes:

```bash
pnpm a11y --base-url http://localhost:3000 --color-scheme dark
```

### Verifying a Single Fix

After applying a fix, verify it passed without re-running the full audit:

```bash
pnpm a11y --base-url http://localhost:3000 --routes /products --only-rule color-contrast --max-routes 1
```

This re-scans only the affected route for the specific rule — takes seconds instead of minutes. The internal remediation guide includes a **Quick verify** command for each finding.

### Scripting with the CLI

The engine returns standard exit codes:

- **`0`**: Audit completed successfully (regardless of findings).
- **`1`**: Runtime error (invalid URL, network failure, etc.).

Commit message:

feat: Introduce new CLI flags for framework, viewport, and report generation, and expand manual audit criteria.

docs/cli-handbook.md, after:

# CLI Handbook

**Navigation**: [Home](../README.md) • [Architecture](architecture.md) • [CLI Handbook](cli-handbook.md) • [Intelligence](engine-intelligence.md) • [Scoring](scoring-system.md) • [Manifest](engine-manifest.md) • [Testing](testing.md)

---

## Table of Contents

- [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
- [Command Categories](#command-categories)
- [Advanced Patterns](#advanced-patterns)

## Environment & Execution Paths

This skill follows the [Agent Skills standard](https://agentskills.io) and is aligned with [Claude's Best Practices for Agent Skills](https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/agents-and-tools/agent-skills/best-practices).

| Agent / IDE     | Skill Install Path (Global/User)               | Verification Command           |
| :-------------- | :--------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------- |
| **Claude**      | `~/.claude/skills/a11y/`                       | `claude skills`                |
| **Antigravity** | `~/.gemini/antigravity/skills/a11y/`           | `antigravity status`           |
| **Cursor**      | `~/.cursor/skills/` (or inherits Claude/Codex) | Check "Specialized Skills" tab |
| **Codex**       | `~/.codex/skills/a11y/`                        | `codex status`                 |
| **Windsurf**    | `~/.codeium/windsurf/skills/a11y/`             | `windsurf status`              |
| **Gemini CLI**  | `~/.gemini/skills/a11y/`                       | `gemini status`                |

## Basic Usage

The primary command is `pnpm a11y`. It is an alias for `node scripts/audit.mjs`.

```bash
pnpm a11y --base-url https://example.com
```

## Command Categories

To improve clarity, flags are grouped into logical categories.

### 1. Targeting & Scope

Flags used to define _where_ the engine should scan.

| Flag            | Argument | Default    | Description                                                  |
| :-------------- | :------- | :--------- | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--base-url`    | `<url>`  | (Required) | The starting point of the audit.                             |
| `--max-routes`  | `<num>`  | `10`       | Maximum unique same-origin paths to discover and scan.       |
| `--crawl-depth` | `<num>`  | `2`        | How deep to follow links during route discovery (1-3).       |
| `--routes`      | `<csv>`  | `null`     | A list of specific paths to scan (overrides auto-discovery). |

### 2. Audit Intelligence

Flags used to customize _how_ the engine interprets rules.

| Flag                  | Argument | Default       | Description                                                  |
| :-------------------- | :------- | :------------ | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--target`            | `<text>` | `WCAG 2.2 AA` | Label for the compliance target in reports.                                                          |
| `--only-rule`         | `<id>`   | `null`        | Run ONLY this specific Axe rule ID (e.g., `color-contrast`).                                         |
| `--ignore-findings`   | `<csv>`  | `null`        | List of rule IDs to exclude from the final report.                                                   |
| `--exclude-selectors` | `<csv>`  | `null`        | CSS selectors to ignore during the DOM scan.                                                         |
| `--framework`         | `<name>` | `null`        | Override auto-detected framework (`react\|vue\|angular\|svelte\|astro\|shopify\|wordpress\|drupal`). |

### 3. Execution & Emulation

Flags used to control the _browser_ and _output_.

| Flag             | Argument                              | Default            | Description                                                                     |
| :--------------- | :------------------------------------ | :----------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `--project-dir`  | `<path>`                              | (none)             | Path to the audited project (for framework/library auto-detection).             |
| `--color-scheme` | `light\|dark`                         | `light`            | Emulates browser `prefers-color-scheme`.                                        |
| `--headed`       | (No arg)                              | `false`            | Runs the browser in visible mode (useful for debugging).                        |
| `--wait-ms`      | `<num>`                               | `2000`             | Max wait for `networkidle` after page load (acts as timeout, not fixed delay).  |
| `--timeout-ms`   | `<num>`                               | `30000`            | Global network timeout for each page load.                                      |
| `--wait-until`   | `domcontentloaded\|load\|networkidle` | `domcontentloaded` | Playwright page load strategy. Use `networkidle` for SPAs with async rendering. |
| `--viewport`     | `<WxH>`                               | (none)             | Viewport dimensions (e.g., `375x812` for mobile, `1440x900` for desktop).      |
| `--with-reports` | (No arg)                              | `false`            | Generate HTML and PDF reports alongside the audit. Requires `--output <path>`.  |
| `--skip-reports` | (No arg)                              | `true`             | Omit HTML and PDF report generation (default behavior).                         |

## Advanced Patterns

### Running a Focused Audit

If you are only working on a specific issue, like color contrast, you can save time by isolating it:

```bash
pnpm a11y --base-url http://localhost:3000 --only-rule color-contrast --max-routes 1
```

### Testing Dark Mode Accessibility

Ensure your site meets contrast requirements in both themes:

```bash
pnpm a11y --base-url http://localhost:3000 --color-scheme dark
```

### Verifying a Single Fix

After applying a fix, verify it passed without re-running the full audit:

```bash
pnpm a11y --base-url http://localhost:3000 --routes /products --only-rule color-contrast --max-routes 1
```

This re-scans only the affected route for the specific rule — takes seconds instead of minutes. The internal remediation guide includes a **Quick verify** command for each finding.

### Scripting with the CLI

The engine returns standard exit codes:

- **`0`**: Audit completed successfully (regardless of findings).
- **`1`**: Runtime error (invalid URL, network failure, etc.).
